---
layout: blog-post
title: "What in the World it Git?"
subtitle: "Git in it!"
date: 2014-12-14
---

A lot of information was covered this week, much of which was completely new to me. We were introduced to a version control software known as git which is fairly straight forward once you get a hang of using it a couple times. Git allows individuals to develop their programs and save them as they move through the project. This save feature is known as version control which allows the developer to not only save their present code but git actually keeps record of each save allowing the developer of others to examine the code before each save.

Many developers use version control because it allows for transparency. With version control not only can one retrace their work and thought process through a project but others can also observe the changes and understand what the developer was thinking at the time. Version control is vital to programming because there are usually many different ways to develop a certain program and with version control it allows multiple developers to contribute to determine the most efficient code.

In order to make git accessible to the vast majority, developers use github that does exactly what it suggests. Github acts as a hub that holds the master copy of the program where others can have access to it and copy it to their own local machines to make edits and then later save it back on github for others to once again have access to examine the new edits. In addition to this, github also allows multiple individuals to work on the same copy of the program simultaneously that they can later submit to github and add the changes to the master copy.