---
layout: blog-post
title: Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde
Subtitle: ‘Out with the Old, In With the New!'
date: 2015-02-20
---

We have been keeping a blog with a minimum of two entries on a weekly basis since the start of DBC. This is actually the first time I have actually kept a blog for longer than a week which feels great! Though blogging is not my strongest suit, it has surely been quite an experience and I look forward to continue to utilize this blog for much longer than I had initially intended to.

Jekyll was introduced to me at just the right time. Just last week, I asked a friend if there is a way to eleminate having to manually add a new html page and link to my blog each time I add a blog post. For those who don’t know, Jekyll is an open source, blog-aware program written primarily in Ruby. What this means that once you input your blog layout in to Jekyll it automatically takes care of the code and generates a static site! (Yes! So Cool! I know!)

It took more time that I’d like to admit to set up Jekyll but this was mainly because majority of the documentation on Jekyll assumes that you are creating a site/blog from scratch. I wanted to just transfer my old site on to Jekyll and after multiple failed attempts, I just gave in and decided to go ahead and create a new Jekyll site in a separate directory on my local machine. Once I did this, I just used the sample site as an example to determine what kind of file structure Jekyll requires and then went ahead and duplicated it and applied it to my website. I highly encourage anyone considering to start using Jekyll to do so by just making a sample Jekyll site first to see how it actually works before actually implimenting it. The trial site is just there to actually show you what the end product should look like and it also includes some of the more common syntax that Jekyll uses (extremely helpful). Ofcourse, the Jekyll ducuments have alot of information but I found that this way it makes everything make alot more sence.

Though there were times where I almost turned into Mr. Hyde through this journey, I absolutely LOVE using Jekyll! Now, instead of taking an additional 15 minutes to update my entire blog after every post, Jekyll does it automatically! It does it so well that I eventually gave me the courage I needed to scrap my old site and reformat everything. For you all newer to HTML and CSS, I would recommend not using Jekyll until you have mastered HTML and CSS and feel comfortable working with the different tags and manipulate the different objects on the page effectively. The only reason I say this is because Jekyll supports blogs written in markdown which means that you will not see any actual code unless you want change it and this can handicap your learning experience.

Just for good measure, here are links to a couple pictures of my old site! [Here is one](/imgs/old-site.png) and [here is another](/imgs/old-site1.png). I feel that my site looks a lot more professional now compared to before. Let me know if you have any additional changes you think I should consider!



