---
layout: blog-post
title: "Looking Back at DBC:Phase-Two"
subtitle:
date: 2015-04-04
---
Dev Boot Camp. They have surely lived up to their name. For the last six weeks I have had an almost nonexistent personal life and I believe that I may have become a workaholic (at least that is what my friends tell me). Surprisingly, I love every day of it! Each day DBC is a different experience. Because of the pace at which DBC moves at, it is almost impossible to get bored with what you are learning. You are either learning a new skill, applying that skill to a certain challenge or pushing that branch for a code review and moving on to the next challenge! In hind site, Phase-1 was a lot easier than Phase-2. It literally felt that we were learning to sprint before learning to walk- Initially keeping up with the curriculum was fairly overwhelming but the entire experience has been extremely exciting! I think I am addicted to the rush I get when completing challenge that took more hours than I am willing to admit.

Phase-two was mainly about learning how to put together a basic web application with Sinatra using the REST convention. In addition to this we were also introduced to JavaScript, AJAX and Jquery all of which were complete novelties to me. One the last day of Phase-2 we were asked to tackle an very open ended challenge that included using the different skills we just learnt. In a group with three other boots, we decided to create an application where a user can log in to play a game where the user's goal is to burn as many orange trees as possible as fast as possible. We used Sinatra to build the application and the game was coded in pure JavaScript. Due to the extreme time limit, there are a couple rough edges in our project, but overall it is completely functional. Here is a link to play <a href="https://orange-tree-burninator.herokuapp.com/">The Orange Tree Burninator!</a>

I hope you enjoy the game as much as we enjoyed making it!
