---
layout: blog-post
title: "And the Conflict..."
subtitle: A Learning Experience
date: 2015-02-13
---

Looking back, I am kind of glad that I faced the conflict I am going to write about because it really showed me how I have grown and how to deal with conflict but most importantly, it works as a great example for this post!

The conflict occurred during college when I was the vice president of an international student organization. It was my second year as part of the board and had been a great experience working with the different cultures. We were a very active club and had about 4 major events every semester and held weekly exec board meetings and bi-weekly meeting (or updates as we called it) for the rest of the members. It isn’t a surprise that being part of the board was a lot of work and being a student run organization, the individual had to be self motivated in order to maintain the demands of the club and their academics.

The source of the conflict occurred due to the fact that one of the exec board members was overly self motivated and committed herself to way too many leadership positions in multiple different organizations that lead them to miss multiple board meetings and events leaving all their work on to the rest of the board to cover. The first couple times this happened, it was not a problem as we understood that life can get busy sometimes however it soon became a recurring problem that was making everyone’s job more difficult than it was supposed to.

The president and I had multiple conversations as to how to deal with the situation because the individual was also a mutual friend making the situation more sensitive. We decided to approach the individual on a one to one basis and address the problem by seeking to understand and finding a way to help fix the problem. Unfortunately when we tried this, though the individual did cooperate, there was no change in behavior. We concluded that we needed to ask our club advisor to release that individual from their position so that we can vote in another individual to the board.

Anger and betrayal were the two main basic emotions I felt during this entire conflict because of how much the club meant to me. I felt angry because there was a lack of decency from the individual to communicate to the rest of the board of their troubles and I felt betrayed because though we tried to help them, they put up a front to just ignore the problem at hand. Unfortunately this event did end up ruining our friendship however I do not regret it. I believe their actions were childish and they should have been a lot more mature about the situation at hand. Looking back I do not believe that I would have done anything differently, I believe that we, as the exec board, decided to give the individual enough time to rectify their mistake before taking steps to relieve them of their position.

This was quite a learning experience for me personally because it was hard to keep my anger to my self a lot of the time and needed to learn how not to let personal and business overlap. Though I do not hold anything against the individual presently, I think they took the final decision personally and that is why our friendship dissipated.