---
layout: blog-post
title: "Exploring My Values"
subtitle:
date: 2015-02-08
---

Being in my early 20s, I see a lot of changes occurring in terms of how I think about certain situations and how I react to them. The main reason for this is that as we continue to experience new things we learn new things about ourselves of which one is our values. Values do change over time but not very frequently, and therefore really play a major role in determining who we actually are. It is difficult to provide a list of values that I maintain at a certain point in my life and claim that to be the main one but if we were to take a scenario in which I have been the most satisfied in the past some of the values that come to mind are adventure, accountability, accomplishment, achievement, control, courage, excitement, fun, growth, friendships, health, openness, meaningful work, personal development, truth and independence. Though a lot of these values fall into something that I would highly uphold in a professional setting, I find that there are even more that I uphold at a personal level.

Though currently I do not have a family, I know that having a family, loyalty, peace, quality, spirituality among other values hold great value to me. The interesting part about values is that when I look back five or even ten years from today, it is interesting to see that a lot of the values that I have mentioned today would not have been mentioned. This obviously has a fair amount to do with the level of maturity I had at that point in my life but it also has a lot to do with what my plans are for the future.

By observing other people and determining what they value and how they feel towards those values it becomes very easy to determine how that person will perform in a given situation (of course this is all speculation and not direct science). I like to believe I am not that transparent and only allow a few select individuals in my life to experience the real me.

In terms of advice, the most recent advice someone has asked me for has been personal. I believe that they asked me because I am a fairly logical thinker and can sometimes be very emotionally detached even in situations that demand an emotional element. As you may suspect this has obviously had both a positive and a negative impact in my life but I don’t believe the cons have out weighed the pros (as yet). I am a very long term thinker and refuse to make an emotional decision that I will later regret. This all falls back to upholding values such as openness and integrity. I am not afraid of thinking a certain way and sharing my thoughts and commend people who do the same towards me.