---
layout: blog-post
title: "Pairing and giving feedback"
subtitle:
date: 2015-01-22
---

Anyone who has done some sort of programming in a professional setting in the past is probably acquainted with the term “pairing.” Just in case, for those still in the dark, pairing is working with another individual on a project and exchanging ideas while one drives (types out the code) and the other navigates (verbalizes everything they are doing and also brainstorms more efficient methods), the navigator is a vital part of the pair.

So far pairing has been a more helpful activity that I had initially thought. Programming is not that difficult once you have a game plan in place, and this is what I find the most helpful about pairing- It forces you to verbalize your intention before implementing it, this helps to find potential errors in logic or future bugs to keep an eye out for. This is probably my favorite part of the pairing session as it keeps everything else in perspective after that!

I have learnt in the past that setting expectations avoids a lot of problems from occurring in the future and therefore before any pairing session I make sure to communicate what kind of learner I am and learn how my pair learns too in order to make the best use of both our times. In one pairing session I had no clue how to even start the challenge and I communicated that from the start and it avoided any frustration that could have been caused, funny enough, half way through the session we were stuck and I came up with an idea that ultimately helped us reach the solution!(gets that dirt off my shoulder)

Feedback is very helpful, I have always been open to helpful constructive feedback, however I do not like reading feedback where the author is praising themselves (It’s not really feed-back at that point). The feedback that I receive really helps me see how people view me and whether or not they enjoy working with me. It also allows me to ultimately determine what I need to change in my learning or communication styles to perform better during the next pairing session.

Writing feedback isn’t too difficult as I can usually pinpoint what I would have wanted to see improved upon if we could pair again. I do sometimes feel scared that my feedback might offend the receiver but I am always sure to be kind in what I write as the feedback is supposed to be helpful not annoying.

The most difficult part of writing feedback is for pairing sessions when everything seemed like it went well. This does get tedious at some point because then you are just looking for small things to criticize about.