---
layout: blog-post
title: "Stereotype Threat"
subtitle:
date: 2015-02-01
---

Stereotype threat refers to being at risk of confirming, as self-characteristic, a negative stereotype about one's group (Steele & Aronson, 1995). When reading about this initially it makes me think about peer pressure but more so on a subconscious level. With stereotype threat, no one is actually trying to convince you to act differently but rather you personally feel that you should because of what you see others do.

I can not particularly pin point a time in my life where I have felt such stereotype-threat but I am sure I did as I was growing up especially during middle school. I was a totally different person when at home compared to when I was in class. Being around my friends at school, I found that I did not really apply myself to doing any classwork even though I wanted to but rather conformed with what my friends expected me to do- to have fun! Of course, it was an interesting time in my life but thankfully I never got in too much trouble but rather just caused a constant stream of chaos (I dont regret anything! ;) ). Despite my actions around my friends at school, I always knew that it was not me and therefore I would end up making up for classwork and completing my homework at home so that I could maintain my grades. I am sure that my grades were negatively after by my strategy but not by much, I rarely got lower than a B in any of my classes, and at that point in time I was satisfied with that grade so maintained the routine, I am sure however that I could have obtained better grades if I did not give into the stereotype-threat.

It is difficult to say what others could do to help in such situations, I think that talking about it with someone and bringing such perspectives to light can play a major role. I believe that a lot of it has to be something the person needs to experience and grow from before being able to identify such threats and staying away from them. In addition to this, I think it also has a lot to do with the individual themselves. The individual needs to know what their priorities are and should be able to maintain a balance if they are truly serious about them.